The Joe Rogan experience.
So you were 13 when you, you and your family and you,
was it you and your mother escaped? Yeah. How did you get out?
So that has initially my sister and I was going to escape,
but then north Koreans say, when you're escaping,
of course we don't have phones, we don't have maps. We don't know what's the,
or the water look like.
Luckily I was living in this border town of North Korea by then. So at night,
do you know if you see a satellite photo of North Korea,
it is the literally the darkest place on earth. We don't have electricity.
So I was seeing this light coming from China. So we,
I thought like if I call it the lights or be able to be finding some bottle of
rice. So as 16,
my sister left through to her friend and she left me a note while I was in the
hospital and got Mike removing my appendix.
And then as soon as I got out of the hospital, I found a note.
And initially my mom and I went to look for a sister where she went,
but when we found the lady,
she told me that she could help me to go to China that day.
And so this was you and your mother and you were 13 years old.
So how did you get across and what does that, what was that experience like?
So, uh, this is, uh,
so I told them my mom call me to me to China. And she,
my mom was like, no, father is like, my father was home. He was reading.
But the thing is, that's the tragic thing for nurses,
because we can not even say goodbye to our loved ones.
So if we got caught on the journey and if my father knew that we were escaping,
he's going to be punished so much. So it's better off that.
He does not know that we were escaping for his own safety,
because they're going to torture you to the point that you're going to say
anything. Cause they do this all subconscious,
like torture that they make you not sleep in a single
room has like no air much air.
If you put there for 40 days alone, you go crazy.
You say whatever they ask you. So if you,
he actually knew that we were escaping it wouldn't go for him.
He would repeat that. So I told him, I'm like, you cannot have father day.
We are escaping.
So that day we climbed up this several mountains
and then we went to the Riverside, but she had a connection with the cars.
Why did you not bring him with you?
Because he's a man and he was sick. And somehow she said,
the only women can go. Only women can grow. I did not know why,
what she meant by that. She's like, you,
you should just go with your mom and don't even tell those people.
That's your mom. She said like, you are like 18 or something.
And my mom was something 30. So she told me that our wage age, it was different.
So, and this would somehow or another help you when you were going across? Yeah.
How would that help you?
I don't. Oh, she told me what is.
Going to be helpful. And well, part of the issue is, um,
in China,
there's a disproportionate number of men in comparison to women.
And so they want as many women to come across
as that are, uh, uh, legally age,
like women that can be married or con right. Is that the idea behind it?
It's a smuggling. So like, it is, it is you got it right?
Because of one child policy, a lot of girls, guy aborted in China.
So they kept the boys.
So there's many,
many men that have no chance of ever finding a woman because there are no women.
Yeah.
Over 30 million men in the rural areas can not find the wives.
So they, over 30 million is number going to keep going up right now.
So that's a big problem for Chinese regime.
But the thing is even that they don't allow north Korean women to stay there.
They catch us and they send us back to North Korea last month,
China with Patrick, the 50 north Korean, the factors back to North Korea,
it is sending them our suits. Literally they are sending him to death camp,
but they,
Chinese regime still do catch us and send us back because they think we are
posing a threat to the regime and they don't want the regime to collapse.
So they are catching all of the factors,
but the human traffickers seized the opportunity here because we are so
vulnerable why we are running away from Chinese authority.
So even they rape us and kill us.
The last place that we are going to go is going to police and then report on
them.
Why did they think that women coming over from North Korea are gonna somehow or
another collapse? The empire.
Because, uh, the that's what Kim dune believes.
He thinks they're going to collapse through the defection,
through the defectors. So after Kim Dawn came into power,
he literally, the country cannot afford the electricity Probo,
electrified the fence, the entire border. Not only that,
putting the machine guns with the cars have a sh to kill order, whoever crosses,
they don't even bother to ask you start, they shoot you right there.
And not only that, he buried the land,
the mines on top of that.
So there's electric fence and then there's guards shooting to kill.
And then past that there's landmines.
Yeah.
Entire country became a concentration camp entire country.
When did they start putting the landmines in a few years ago?
So this is after you had already escaped.
Yeah, no, there's no, you can't.
You don't see no skin defects escaping from North Korea anymore.
It's impossible to scale at this point.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.